In this video I'll demonstrate how to create a fair distributed switch.
So here we are.
And the Vee's for our web client and I'm going to click on the networking tab and under networking we
should be able to see all of the virtual switches that have already been created in my inventory and
you can see here we have two standard virtual machine groups.
So that's what's been created so far to standard virtual switch networks that virtual machines can be
connected to.
I now want to create my Vee's for a distributed switch.
So I'm going to go ahead and write click my training virtual data center and under distributed switch
I'm going to create a new distributed switch and I'll call it demo.
These a distributed switch or demo VDX and I'll hit next and I'm going to choose Vee's for a distributed
switch.
The current version which is compatible with VSE fair 6.5.
I don't have any hosts that are on older versions of ESX II so I don't have to worry about using an
older version of the distributed switch.
However if I were to still have some ESX version 6 hosts in my environment or 5.5 hosts or things like
that then I'd have to choose one of those older versions.
I'm going to choose a version 6.5 and I'm going to set the number of playings as 4.
I can always change that later on if I want to I'm going to leave network IO control enabled which is
a way that I can use shares in Lovett's and reservations to control bandwidth contention and do I want
a default port group YOUTZ go ahead and do that.
And I'm going to call it distributed or dist switch PGE distributed switch porker just to make it easy
to remember which is which.
And I'll go ahead and hit finish here.
And now my Vee's for distributed switches in the process of being created.
And here it is.
And on my vse for distributed switch I've got a port group and I've also got my uplinks here which at
the moment I don't have any physical adapters that are dedicated to this Vee's for a distributed switch.
So let's click on our VSD fear distributed switch.
And over on the right I'm going to go to hosts and we can also see at the moment there are no ESX hosts
associated with this Vee's for a distributed switch.
So all right click the switch and go down to add and manage hosts.
And I'm going to add some hosts and I'll hit next and I'll pick the two hosts that I already have in
my environment.
And I'm going to add these to the vees for a distributed switch and it basically just means that right
now the VSE for distributed switch exists only within the center.
Right.
That's where all of the management and configuration of my Vee's fetish distributed it's is done.
So right now I've created what we call the management plan where I can set up all of my poor groups
I can do all my configuration but there's no data plane yet.
This is for a distributor which is not capable of actually handling any traffic until I add some hosts
and create that data plane.
So by adding these hosts basically saying I want to push this vse very distributed switch configuration
down to these hosts.
I'll go ahead and hit next.
And now I can choose some tasks that I may or may not want to perform as I'm adding these hosts.
I'm not going to change any of my VM kernel ports and we will leave my management VM kernel poor write
on the standard virtual switch but I do want to add some physical adapters and I do want to move some
of my virtual machines.
So I'm going to go ahead and hit next here.
And so for my physical adapters I'll pick my first post here and on this host I've got some other some
V.M. necks that are on other virtual switches that are unclaimed.
Right on this virtual switch I have no physical adapters but on another virtual switch I have what's
called VM zero.
That's my physical adapter on that ESX host.
And you can see at the moment my ESX I actually only have one physical adapter.
So what I did in the background here was actually just pause my recording and it went to each of these
hosts and I added another physical adapter.
Right so now we can see that we have some other V.M. next V.M. neck one on each of these hosts.
Right.
And so what I'm going to do is go ahead and grab V.M. neck one on the first host and assign it to uplink.
One of the V's for distributed switch and I'm going to do the same thing on the other ESX host and grab
the next one assign it to uplink one.
So what I've now done is assign one of the physical adapters on each of those ESX I hosts to my vees
fair distributed switch and I'll go ahead and hit next.
There is no impact on the existing configuration.
That physical adapter wasn't even in use by any of the other virtual switches.
And then my final option is to migrate VM networking.
Right so I chose the option of migrating VM networking.
And so I'm going to take this test VM and I'm going to hit assign port group and I'm going to move it
over to the distributed switch port group.
Right and if you expand here you can see the source port group right now is on internal.
And the destination port group is the distributed switch port group.
I'm not going to mess with my center server appliance.
I'm going to leave that on the network that it's currently on and I'll go ahead and hit next and finish.
And so now what I've done is I've actually gone ahead and configured the very distributed switch on
two of my ESX I host.
And if we kind of take a moment to move back over to hosts and clusters and we examine this first ESX
host and we go to configure and other networking we look at virtual switches.
Now we see we have our demo Vee's fair distributed switch available here.
We can see that we have one virtual machine distributed switch port group and we can see that we have
one physical adapter configured and assigned to this Vee's for a distributed switch and this particular
host.
And if we look at the other host we'll see something very similar.
We've got the demo Vee's for distributed switch and we've got one physical adapter assigned at the moment.
There is no virtual machines connected to this.
These very distributed switch on this particular host though one other thing that I want to point out
to you before I move on.
Notice on this host.
I'll call it host 13 and host 13 of the demo vees for distributed switch.
And I vse with 0 8 which is a standard switch on host 12.
I have the demo VDX I switch 0 and I have another standard virtual switch.
And remember the standard virtual switches are local to one specific ESX I host so that the switch wan
will not be present on the other ESX I host.